>> Kyle Simpson: Well, let's practice that
topic of containing function impurity.
We talked about two different techniques,
so
we have a two part exercise on impurity.
First part of this exercise, it's laid out
here in the read me, and I encourage you
definitely do read this, but essentially
you're gonna be taking some functions and
moving them around, or
refactoring them, so that they.
The first technique that you're gonna
use is that technique we talked about,
of wrapping a function around, wrapping
a pure function around an impure function.
So if you notice in our excercise, EXJS,
you'll notice we have these functions like
sortStudentsByName and sortStudentsByID.
And you'll notice that these functions
modify a variable outside of themselves.
So there is our side effect, the fact
that students.sort is being called, that
modifies the array in place, and that's
the side effect that we want to avoid.
So our first task, part one,
is to take this function and
to re-factor the code
around this function, so
that it is behaving in
a pure way from the outside.
The way you're gonna do that
actually is to have, or
to define a function
called getStudentsByName.
So this is the function that you're gonna
modify, and in this case most likely move,
to wrap around the sortStudentsByName.
And you'll notice,
in the read me it'll explain,
it needs to receive input and
it's going to return the modified output,
but it will contain that
impurity to itself, so
it will not actually end up changing
the results of these particular students.
You'll notice at the bottom of your
exercise file, there's a variety of
console statements, and these console
statements have comparisons in them.
When your tests pass, essentially,
each of these sections of console
log statements will print true.
So you want to see the getStudentsByName,
when you're passing students
it should produce a return result
that prints true for all of these.
That's part one.
Also, make sure that you
don't break the current
vales that happen, or
these should all print true, as well.
So studentTest1 and
studentTest3 should all print trues.
These won't print true until part two,
okay?
So that is part one, make sure you check
the read me for some hints, some specific
things that you wanna do, you want to
avoid actually changing these functions,
so don't change sortStudentsByName,
simply wrap something around it, that's
how you want to avoid the side effects.
For part two of the exercise,
we wanna do something similar,
we wanna contain the impurity
inside of the sortStudentsByID,
we wanna contain that impurity.
But when we practice the second technique
we talked about, which wasn't wrapping
a function around it, but rather creating
an adapter function alongside it.
So remember, we have this getStudentsByID,
that's gonna be our adapter function,
we wanna have it sitting
alongside the sortStudentsByID.
And remember, it's in the slides,
and you can check that,
remember the six steps that you
basically need to accomplish.
You need to save the current state,
set up the appropriate initial state,
call the side effect, capture the new
state, restore the old state and
then return the captured state.
So make sure you handle all of those
steps in your adapter function.
And at this point,
once you've solved that,
all 15 of these tests should print true.